Voiceactivated applications have become more and more common in our daily
lives. Less than two decades ago, a computer understanding
human language was only possible in the realm of science fiction. Now the
technology is integrated into our everyday lives through through the voice assistants
in our phones and more recently, our homes. But how does it
work? How are the sounds that you a naked, two legged monkey
producing your fleshy voice box, understood by essentially a very
fancy rock, we forced to do math. The first
challenge we face is the fact that sound is analog, whereas computers
can only understand digital input. So we use a microphone.
A microphone is basically just a small magnet wrapped in a coil of wire.
When it vibrates, it creates an electric current in the wire. By electromagnetic induction,
the amplitudes are converted into voltage, which can be read via a computer.
From this input, individual frequencies are isolated using
an FTT. The result can be represented as a spectrogram,
which looks like this with time on the X axis, frequencies on
the y axis, and brightness showing the intensity. Every language has
a phonetic library consisting of the sounds that are used in its speech, which are
the most basic building blocks from which words can be made. They are called phonemes,
and spectrograms allow us to identify them. This is an O,
and this is a K. During its early stages,
most phoning recognition was done statistically, for example, using the hidden markup
model, which is an algorithm consisting of States and corresponding evidence.
This approach is unable to adapt to large phony variation,
however, as every phony must be predefined as human
speech varies greatly due to accents and mispronunciation,
neural networks were introduced as an alternative. You may
have already heard about neural networks being a kind of machine learning.
Neural networks are capable of continuously improving themselves within
PETA. A neural network consists of interconnected nodes, with each
connection having a weight, a number that determines the signal between two
of these nodes. These nodes are typically organized in
layers that consist of an input and an output layer, in addition to
hidden layers that perform transformations on the data.
Every time he gets feedback and the neural network learns, it adjusts these
weights. However, neural networks, unlike hidden Markov models,
are very data hungry and require a lot of it to be set up.
As such, Markov models are still used, often in combination with neural networks.
Once the sounds are identified, the system can begin to analyze words.
The identified phonemes are then processed by what is called a language
model. It analyzes how likely it is for any given phoneme
to appear after another. For example, in English, the phoneme
M never precedes an S. It then analyzes if the output
consists of words in its dictionary. If a phoneme combination is
highly unlikely by either standard, a different word with similar phonemes is
chosen. Once it has identified which words are in a sentence.
It conducts a syntactic analysis of the phrase to see if it actually
makes sense. It investigates the word order in accordance with grammar
rules utilizing what is known as a passing tree. A passing tree
is a technique by which a sentence is broken down into smaller and smaller parts
until only elementary words remain and the sentence is valid.
If there are any red flags and they very often are the program backtracks
to the phonemes, it recognized and reassesses which words are formed using
similar phonemes. Once there are minimal inconsistencies,
the final output is at last given. As you can see,
our voice has to go through many distinct steps before a computer can determine what
we said. First, a microphone has to convert our speech into
digital input which a computer then attempts to classify into recognizable sounds
with the help of statistical models and neural networks.
Words and phrases are then picked out by analyzing these sounds until
our input is determined. Now the computer just
needs to be able to act on it. But that's the story for another day.